---
layout: single
title:  "GSoD 2020: Week 8 to Week 9"
date:   2020-11-13
---

<p style='text-align: justify;'>
The phase 3 of Google Season of Docs 2020 started. In the seventh week, when I was done with the REST API Guide, I started with the Pbench Guide documentation. The pbench benchmarking suite makes use of Performance Co-Pilot services for recording arbitrary performance metrics during benchmark runs. It was documented in a traditional fashion similar to PCP itself, with much content in large individual files and typically in MarkDown(md) format. So, my task is to transfer and update the pbench guides to RST such that it can be hosted on the modern, community readthedocs.io site, which will allow community contributors to more easily change and extend the content.
</p>

<p style='text-align: justify;'>
The eighth week was started with the basic sphinx configuration setup for the Pbench Guides. After that, I converted the Pbench User Guide from md to rst format. During this phase, I learnt many new sphinx extensions - one of them being 'sphinx-panels', which was used to give dropdown card look to the headings.  
</p>

<p style='text-align: justify;'>
In the ninth week, I worked on the remaining work and suggestions from the mentor and in the end, after the review from the mentor, they were hosted on modern, community readthedocs site.
</p>

Please have a look [here](https://pbench.readthedocs.io/en/latest/). 

<p style='text-align: justify;'>
From the middle of the ninth week, I started with my stretch goals of improving the diagrams present in PCP books. Now, only two more weeks were remaining and I was in a good shape to complete all the deliverables on time.
</p>

