---
layout: single
title:  "GSoD 2020: Week 10 to Week 11"
date:   2020-11-27
---

<p style='text-align: justify;'>
Now, the Google Season of Docs was on its completion stage. I have already started with the stretch goals of improving the diagrams from the ninth week. Continuing it to the tenth week , I improved all the diagrams present in PCP UAG and PG book with the help of draw.io. Improvement of the diagrams incorporates the following:
</p>

1. Shadow of the shapes.
2. Color/font as per pcp.io website.
3. Proper Scaling.
4. Consistency (same font, same font size, same color palette, same size of the shapes) throughout the figures.
5. Improvements in arrow heads.

<p style='text-align: justify;'>
Now, the diagrams are more clear, professional and good to look.
</p>

<p style='text-align: justify;'>
In the middle of the GSoD 2020 period, I added an another stretch goal in my timeline. The stretch goal was - Addition of 'pmseries(1)' chapter in the PCP User’s and Administrator’s Guide (UAG) book. So, I completed this stretch goal in the last week,i.e., eleventh week of my GSoD Doc Development period.
</p>

<p style='text-align: justify;'>
After the completion of all the deliverables, I started giving the final touch to my work by further improving the documentations by resolving the various bugs, like removing typos and whitespaces, wrapping the text of table cells. In the end, I added the PCP icon to the docs as a copyright. With this, I completed all my deliverables on time and now, it's time to wrap the beautiful, fun, challenging and exciting journey of Google Season of Docs 2020 :heart:.
</p>