---
layout: single
title:  "GSoD 2020: Week 1 to Week 4"
date:   2020-10-10
---

<p style='text-align: justify;'>
The first week of Google Season of Docs 2020 is kick-started with all the joy and enthusiasm. In this phase, I have to focus on transfering and updating the Performance Co-Pilot (PCP) books - User's and Administrator's Guide (UAG) and Programmer's Guide (PG) from the docbook content into reStructured Text (rst) format such that they can be hosted on the modern community readthedocs.io site. So, what will be the benefit of this? The benefit behind this idea is - It will allow community contributors to more easily change and extend the content. No need of specific set of users to maintain the content website. 
</p>

<p style='text-align: justify;'>
The books have a lot of content. So, what was my approach to easily locate the content and make it user friendly? The approach was- to make separate rst files for each chapter and name those files as per chapter's name, so that one can easily find the content to edit and read.  
</p>

<p style='text-align: justify;'>
In the first week, I started the work with the basic setup of the sphinx configuration for the Performance Co-Pilot (PCP) documentation. So, in the first week, I converted first four chapters of the PCP UAG book.  
</p>

<p style='text-align: justify;'>
Following the second week, the next four chapters of the PCP UAG book is completed. I hyperlinked all the references and cross-referenced the headings of the chapters with each other. With this, the PCP UAG is completed. In the end, I made a new demo repository for the PCP books and hosted it on rtd to get it reviewed from the mentors, prior to merging them in the master code. After the review, I got appreciation as well as feedbacks from the mentors. I worked on those feedbacks and after that opened a PR in the main repository. 
</p>

<p style='text-align: justify;'>
In the third week, I started with the PCP PG book. This book has four chapters. I completed and hyperlinked all the chapters in the same week. Now, the only thing remaining for both the books is hosting them on readthedocs (rtd) site.
</p>

<p style='text-align: justify;'>
Now, it's the fourth week or say the last week of the phase 1. I worked on the feedbacks for the PCP PG book and opened a PR for the same. In the end, both the books were hosted on the rtd site. And they are looking really cool. 
</p>

Please have a look [here](https://pcp.readthedocs.io/en/latest/).   

<p style='text-align: justify;'>
 So, the phase 1 was completed now and I was heading ahead for the phase 2 which was coming with a lot of challenges.   
</p>